Let's get the whole view here, right?
I got this shirt in Hawaii.
I just came back from the Geek Cruise.
Did anybody hear about the Geek Cruise?
It's the weirdest thing.
You know, you get a bunch of Mac heads
on a boat with normal people,
and you cruise around places.
So I did the Geek
Cruise to Alaska last year,
and this year was Hawaii.
And it was interesting because
in order to save money,
you know,
conferences are working together.
So we had a combined conference.
It was actually Macmania, which was the,
you know, Mac geek part of it,
Pearl World for Pearl guys,
and Star Trek.
And you know,
so you go into the main dining
room and you're sitting there,
they assign you seats,
and the conversation was
unbelievably strange.
And this year I had Pearl going
in like this while I was getting
Vulcan stuff going that way,
and somewhere in the middle
they met and made sense.
I don't know how it worked.
Thank you for spending time
today and coming in for the
AppleScript and QuickTime session.
You're going to get an overview of what's
available for you to use right now,
what kind of QuickTime tools
are out there,
and some ideas about how to use them to
automate some of the processes that you
do with QuickTime content every day.
Just a quick question so I can get
a sense of whom I am talking to.
How many of you in here
are scripting already?
Yes!
See,
your work has been validated right here.
And I assume that most of you are
also doing QuickTime content as well.
Okay, so there's some scripters in
here I see by the disparity and
difference there that are scripters
that want to start incorporating
QuickTime into their lifestyles.
Is this true?
Okay, right there,
there's one right there.
He just got a cable modem,
he wants to live the QuickTime life.
Okay.
I do too, all the time, I think.
The story of AppleScript and
QuickTime is one of the real unsung
success stories at Apple Computer.
And through the very diligent
hard work of Gary Flynn,
Tom Becker, Rhonda, Frank,
and everybody involved in this,
it's been an ongoing process.
It's just bloomed and
bloomed and bloomed.
And it basically came down to the same
idea that affects every business is,
how do I get consistency?
How do I get accuracy?
How do I get speed?
How can I scale what I do and make
more money and stay competitive?
And the answer in any business,
whether it's in multimedia or
whether it's print or whatever
kind of business it is,
it's automation is the answer.
So with that in mind,
the QuickTime team and the
AppleScript team focused
on delivering quality.
And the core functionality that
allows you to automate a lot
of the repetitive things that
you do with QuickTime content,
such as applying annotations
to 400 movies that are going
to go up on the website.
Done by hand, that's very tedious.
Done with a script, it's go get a donut.
So the whole idea is to incorporate this
automation with the world of QuickTime.
And so what I'm going to do,
first of all, can I have laptop one,
please?
That was all the slides
you're going to get out of me,
by the way.
I don't slide.
I like to show you what it
is instead of talk about it.
It's like dancing about
architecture or something.
So what we're going to look at
first is what's available to us,
what kind of resources are there,
what kind of things has Apple done,
where is it on my operating system,
what does it look like?
And then we're going to go from
there into three core new features
added in the most recent version
of QuickTime just for AppleScript.
Just for AppleScript.
You're very special.
There are three extremely
powerful features that can
only be done with AppleScript.
And they're in the new version.
We're going to look at those.
And I'm going to have a guest come up
and show some of the automations based
upon some of that technology that we
use in-house and with some customers.
And then at the end, we're going to look
at AppleScript Studio,
which is part of the Xcode package.
And what that allows you
to do is create a native
Mac OS X application using AppleScript,
Objective-C, Java, C,
or any combination thereof.
But what we're going to particularly pay
attention to with AppleScript Studio is
the ability to talk directly to the
QuickTime APIs from AppleScript.
So all the commands that you
wanted but you couldn't get to,
you can now make yourself.
And I'll show you an example project that
you can download today and start using.
So let's begin.
My first slide is going to take you
to the venerable QuickTime website.
We all know how to get there.
QuickTime.com is the shortcut
that the people in the know use.
You can do the same for
AppleScript as well.
It's AppleScript.com.
And down the right-hand side,
you'll see a thing that says
QuickTime products over here.
And under QuickTime Pro,
there's a nice page that gives
you all the reasons why you
want to get QuickTime Pro.
And trust me, if you don't have it,
you do want to buy it because it
turns on a lot of functionality that
you really want to take advantage of.
[Transcript missing]
It's infectious, isn't it?
It really is.
This script menu is installed
in the AppleScript folder,
which is in the applications folder.
You just double-click the
thing that says script menu,
and it installs up into
the menu bar for you,
and you can't see the
glorious-looking icon that we have.
But by default, it has dozens and dozens,
about 30 or 40 scripts
pre-installed for you.
And when you download
this script collection,
you can get the QuickTime broadcaster
scripts and the QuickTime player scripts.
And these 100 scripts right
here are these scripts in
this particular collection.
It's really easy to install.
You simply go to open the scripts folder,
which is in your home library folder.
You drag your folder of QuickTime player
scripts into that folder,
and they show up in the menu.
It really is that easy.
And then anytime you
need to run a script,
you can access it from there.
We have some nice scripts that
really help save some time.
For example, one that was that this was
one of Rhonda's big ones.
She came to me about this one and said,
Sal, we have to automate this.
And it's chapter creation.
Instead of creating text files with
certain codings and importing it,
this is really interactive.
You literally just put the movie
where you want to go and say,
make a chapter here, and it will do that.
We'll be demonstrating it.
So all of these scripts.
Deal with the various
things about chapters,
editing them, renaming them,
deleting them.
We have a section of scripts
that just deal with the nuts and
bolts of editing movie files.
For example, if you want to cut from the
current selection to a new movie,
instead of going through a
bunch of steps on your own,
there's a quick script to do it.
Cut from the beginning,
copy a selection to a new movie,
edit a frame in graphic converter.
That's a nice one.
Merge the front movie into the
second movie automatically for you.
Scale the front movie to
a specific percentage.
Little tools like that that you'd
use throughout the day that each
one saves you a couple seconds
or saves you a half a minute.
And by the end of the day,
you're able to stay more focused
on the task that you're doing than
the how am I going to do this.
There's a section of
scripts for exporting.
And there's a special one right
here that we'll be talking about.
Save export settings.
That's a new feature.
There's a section of scripts
that deal with favorites.
And actually, an HTML embed tag wizard.
If you've ever been daunted
by the task of writing to
HTML for a QuickTime embed tag,
this actually walks you through it.
It looks at the front movie and analyzes
it and asks you a couple questions
about what you want to do with it and
then writes the embed tag for you.
We'll either put it into a file
or copy it to the clipboard.
There's a section on info scripts,
and these give you more information
for the front movie quickly.
Here's a nice one.
How to get to source URLs.
You are also the front movie
if you're interested in
where a stream's coming from.
Some miscellaneous ones.
Here's a very useful one
that we'll be demonstrating.
It's creating a thumbnail link movie
to place into a web page so that
it's a miniature of your movie.
And when they click it,
it actually launches your
movie in the QuickTime player.
That usually takes a lot
of steps to create that and
then embed it in your page.
And there's a script that
does it very easily for you.
There's some other navigation scripts,
some play scripts,
some previewing scripts,
some property scripts.
And these are setting the
specific playback properties
like auto quit when done,
auto close when done, auto play,
playback properties in general,
href of the front movie.
There's a couple scripts
dealing with SMIL,
S-M-I-L.
If you want to be able to write
XML but never got around to it,
these scripts will write it for you.
And then there's a series
of scripts dealing with text
tracks and tracks in general.
Just about every property that
you want to deal with the track,
you can deal with these scripts.
And finally,
an interesting script for setting
the position of the movie in the
window because movies remember that.
And if you wanted exactly 72 pixels
by 90 pixels down from the left,
you can do this if you're
anal retentive like me.
So there's a page that you're going
to go to and you can download that
script collection that I'm going
to be demonstrating now from that
site and start using these today
to start saving yourself some time.
Any question about that at all?
No?
Pretty straight ahead.
Pretty straight ahead, isn't it?
Okay.
And this is the QuickTime scripts
collection as it looks
like when you download it.
The readme file again is the same.
Open Safari, I hope.
Nice, okay,
let's just drag it up over here.
The README file is the same
file that you just saw.
So all that explanation you
don't have to write it down
or copy it from the website.
It's right there for you,
a detailed description of each one of
the scripts that we'll be dealing with.
There's installation
instructions that tell you,
you know,
where you're going to put the files,
what you're going to do with them,
what kind of requirements
you have for the scripts.
And then there's the collection
of scripts themselves.
The applets, droplets,
there's some example files to
help you try out these scripts.
There are some script templates that
you're going to use today and that I'll
be demonstrating that make actually
writing the scripts a very easy process
because they're pre-done for you.
You literally just open
up these templates,
put in the couple lines of
code that you want and save it.
And all of the error handling and
repeat routines and everything
else has already been done for you.
I know I'm bowling you
over with all this stuff,
right?
There is the collection of
QuickTime player scripts,
which are the ones that I have
installed in the menu up here.
That's the collection right here,
the QuickTime player scripts.
And there's some various images
involved in this as well.
And I have this new thing called
export settings that we'll be
looking at in just a little while.
So let's begin by looking at some
of the applets and droplets that are
available and how they work and how
you can use some of these yourself.
Yes?
You can get those from
the AppleScript website.
They're on the page about Bluetooth and
the clicker controlling the broadcaster.
Yes, and you can just download
them and copy them from there.
I just got them and put
them in a little collection.
Any other questions
before I roll on here?
I'm sorry?
Okay.
Okay, very good.
So, if it's a burning desire,
wherever I got that from.
No?
Okay.
Then we'll,
as Rhonda pointed out so nicely to me,
we'll save the questions for the end
unless it's something really important.
And then you can come up to the mic
and say it so that we can get the
translators to translate it so that
everybody else in the world out there
at large gets to enjoy this as well.
Here's our applets collection
and there's the add to favorites,
annotations drop, all annotations,
annotations and credits droplet,
clear all annotations.
For example, and all of these droplets,
the ones with the blue arrow,
are designed to be double clicked
and you get a preference dialogue.
All of them have some kind of a
dialogue that tells you what the
script does and then usually has a
set of preferences involved with it.
For example, if I click this, it says,
do you want to retain the
existing full name of the movie?
When you set these
settings and I say yes,
and then you can enter a
value for the album artist.
I'll just click enter key.
So you can set any of these
properties and it will get stored
in the script and be part of
the settings when they get set.
So you can copy the script,
keep a couple copies, rename it,
call one, you know, internal use,
call one website, call one, you know,
CD use.
And then based upon that,
you can go ahead and save it.
Okay.
So, I'm going to go ahead and save it.
what you're going to do with your movie,
you just drag it on there
and it sets the annotations.
Here's one called
annotations and credits.
This actually will make a rolling
credits based upon your annotations
but I'm going to start with the
limited annotations droplet.
Now this particular droplet applies
a small subset of your annotations.
It doesn't go through all
40 that are available.
Just the ones that you have put
into the property and to the comment
window of that particular script.
So I just got the information for that
droplet and you'll see down in the
comments field it says product colon.
Product is the name of the annotation,
colon divides it from whatever
value you're going to have.
So I have three annotations,
your video product, authors,
ordinary user, performers, there's me,
myself and I.
So to set the annotations to a movie,
I just drag that movie onto the droplet.
It opens up the movie, applies the stuff,
and closes it.
It's that fast.
So now let's go back and
open up that movie again.
And then when I get the
information for that movie,
you can see up here that it applied
the annotations for you automatically.
Now,
that's not so impressive with one movie,
but it's very impressive with 300.
Small.
We're starting small.
We're building here.
Okay.
We're going to take that same
movie now that has that applied,
the annotations applied to it.
I'm going to drag it onto the annotations
and credits droplet and let that go.
And it's going to want to know
a destination for the new movie
that it's going to make from this.
And I'm going to just put
this as a destination.
Destination.
Create and choose that.
So it'll open up the movie and
then extract all the annotations,
create a credits that goes
in front of the movie,
then save it off.
Now,
this is useful for if you're reviewing
content and you can't keep track
of every movie that you're seeing.
You need something that brings up
the annotations information first.
So we'll go back to
this destination folder,
open up the movie, and then run it.
And you'll see that it brings
up the annotations information
before it plays the movie.
[Transcript missing]
Plight Golf Clap, I like that.
Very societal.
Oh, these guys are great.
Tarantino has nothing on them.
And then it plays-- ah, of course,
copyright.
[Transcript missing]
So there's an example of a
script that builds upon something
else that another script did.
But that way you can now take
that movie and give it to somebody
else who's not familiar with your
organization and your material,
and they instantly have all the
information in front of the movie,
and it took me all of how
many seconds to do it.
Little things like this make a
big difference during the day.
And let's continue to look for
some of our other examples here.
Display a folder as a slideshow.
This is useful.
I'll open the QuickTime scripts here,
go to my examples files.
And I'm going to choose
a slideshow images.
So this has a couple images in it.
And what I'll do is I'll just
drag that onto the script.
And now I have an instant slideshow just
so I can preview and see what's going on.
I don't have to actually import
them into iPhoto to be able to
quickly browse through a folder
of images to see what I want.
That ability is already
built into QuickTime.
Now if I want to save this at this point,
I can, or I can just delete it
and don't save it at all.
But that's a quick way to do
an entire folder as a set.
You can also,
there's another pair to that one
where you can save the entire
folder as a slideshow as well,
and that's called create
slideshow from folder here.
And that will go through the process
of actually building it and saving it.
So you can automate 40 or 50 slideshows
if you want to do it that way.
There's the limited annotations
droplet that we just saw where it
does a small amount of annotations.
And then there's the playback scripts.
For example, let me see.
Let me open up another.
Switch.
I hope you like switch ads because I'm
going to use those as my material today.
Is that okay?
All right with that?
Switch.
All right.
I'm going to double-click the script
because all of our scripts can be set.
There are preferences that can be stored.
So the presentation is normal
size continuation dialogue.
Now, what is a continuation dialogue?
Well, I made the script for automating
the playback of movies and
I forgot to give it a way to stop.
So what happens was guys internally at
Apple were using these shows and they go,
"Oh, okay.
I got to stop." And they'd stop the
one movie but the script would keep
going and load the next one and it
became Fantasia with the water wizard
and everything happening all at once.
So what this does is it brings up a
quick dialogue for a couple seconds,
self-closes, that says,
"Do you want to go continue?"
And that's an option you could say,
"I want to display the movie
at a normal size and bring me
a continuation dialogue." Okay.
So let me just grab a couple of slides.
I'll grab a couple of these
and I'll try to do different
ones each time we do them,
okay?
I'll grab this one and this one and
I'll drag it onto the play movie script.
Now,
these you can keep in your dock as well.
Just have them there all the time.
Get your iPod.
iPod's here.
I sell iPods at Dodger games.
Two, and then you gotta pass them down
kind of the way they sell hot dogs.
I've got about 1,500
in the trunk of my car.
I'm usually shirtless, just for effect.
The money just starts flowing in.
You can listen to all these songs.
I say at least over 50 songs.
I'm not quite sure of the amount.
I think it's like two million songs.
My name is Will Ferrell,
and I'm a porn actor.
So it closes it,
brings up the continuation dialogue.
Christmas songs that drive Santa crazy
are I Saw Mama-- So I'm gonna just
save that one for a little bit later,
okay?
And then the script senses that
there's no more movies open,
and it will close itself.
So if you have a series of movies, again,
that you wanna be able to just present,
how do you do it?
What do you do?
You line 'em all up in the movie player,
and then click, you know, click, click,
click, and play all movies,
and then they all start
going . I'm Will Ferrell.
No, I'm Will Ferrell.
So this is just a little
organized way to do that.
Now, as long as we're getting into
being able to play movies,
movies have specific invisible
properties that make them very appealing.
And some of these properties
are such things as setting a
movie to automatically close,
or automatically quit,
or automatically play.
Now, we know from the QuickTime player
interface that you can set that flag in
the properties to do an automatic play,
but there's no place in the
interface to set an auto close.
So I'll take Will.
I'm gonna drag him onto auto close.
And now Will's ready to go.
And so while I'm at it,
I'm going to drag Will onto autoplay.
And now, Playwell.
Christmas songs that
drive Santa crazy are:
"I Saw Mama Kissing Santa Underneath
the Christmas Tree," "The Jingle
Bell Rock," "White Christmas,"
"Forget It," "Enough," "I've Heard
That Over a Billion Times," "Yes,
Santa Has an iPod and Playlists,"
"980 Christmas Songs,"
And then 20 Doobie Brothers.
And one Sheryl Crow.
My name is S.
Claus.
I live in the North Pole with
elves and reindeer.
So, did you notice the
movie closed on its own?
Nice way to present.
So that stays with the movie file.
As a matter of fact,
if you use that movie linked from another
movie or from a link in the website,
this kind of thing happens.
He's got all this stuff like
prepared in a little example.
Finds in where, where, Sally, Wally.
Okay.
Help Center.
I'm going to find my copy of Safari.
So this is a QuickTime movie.
It's a one-frame movie that has a href
applied to it using the href droplet.
And the href is interesting.
It is a open bracket, self-present.move,
close bracket.
The self-present.move is the name of
the movie that this is targeted to.
The movie is naturally
set to self-present,
right?
The T means target.
Then the next bracket is
QuickTime player and bracket.
And if you use this as your URL,
what's that saying is open up
this particular movie that's in
the same folder as this file and
play it in the QuickTime player.
So a simple click on
this opens up the movie.
you
And then closes it.
Nice way to present a
movie from a web page,
isn't it?
Or from a help page.
The user doesn't have to know anything
about controls or about how to
manipulate the player or anything else.
All they have to do is just click.
Click.
Okay, click.
Reload.
Click.
Oh, the QuickTime player.
That's because I have Panther installed
on the other stupid partition.
It's been bugging me all week.
OK.
Hold on.
So click.
So this movie's set to
auto-quit as well as auto-close,
right?
So I'll relaunch the
player here to get it back.
So there's an example of how you can take
that playback property and incorporate
it and change the way that you're
displaying the content on a website.
Okay, we're going to continue on.
There is the auto-quit property,
auto-play, and then there are some
droplets for batch setting them.
So if you want to set the playback
properties back to where they were,
you just drag it on top of this,
and it gets rid of all those
playback properties and returns the
movie back to its pristine state.
If you want to do them all together,
then you can double-click this
particular droplet and determine,
you know, what time you want to
have it for display,
and then drag it onto that to set.
So that's a couple of the,
of those playback properties.
Another example where
AppleScript can really help you
save some time is in media skins.
How many people are using media skins?
How do you go about doing media skins?
It's a multi-step process, isn't it?
It's a quite involved process.
You have to have all
your materials together.
It's like watching the
Saturday morning cooking shows.
They make it look so easy
because somebody else has
already cut up the carrots,
and they have the little thing here,
and they just make
their happy little mess.
And then they don't even have to cook it.
They just look at something
that's already cooked,
and they go, blah.
What a bunch of cooks.
I don't think any of
them can actually cook.
So here's an example of how
AppleScript can automate some of
the process and take some of the
sting out of making media skins.
So you can really take advantage
of this incredible technology
that's unique to QuickTime.
Here I have some of the elements
that are incorporated in the
process of making a media skin.
There's the media skin itself,
there's the mask that indicates the
area that's going to be cut away,
and there's the drag mask which is
going to indicate which part of the
QuickTime skin is going to actually show.
My source movie is this
little movie here of a plane.
So I want the plane to
fly through this queue.
Now,
instead of going through the multi-step
process of having to do that by hand,
I'm just going to take the plane
and drop it onto this script.
And it says, where do you want me to
put this particular movie?
When I get done with it,
I'm going to say choose right there.
And I left these little dialogues in.
You can turn them off.
But I left them in so you can
see the steps that it's doing.
It's going to add the media
skin to the background,
move it to the back,
activate transparent areas.
Okay, that's a bug on my
computer and nobody else's.
That area that's white
should actually be white.
It's going to write the XML data to disk,
open the new movie,
and then apply the playback settings,
save the finished movie, close it.
Delete temporary items, movie processed.
So you can turn off those if you want
to batch process this kind of thing.
You don't have to have
those dialogues running.
And here is the resulting movie.
On my computer,
I have a bug in my computer that makes
it so that you can't see through.
So I'm going to go in here by hand
and go properties of this movie.
And I'll show you what it looks like,
actually.
And we're going to choose
media skin background,
graphics mode, transparent,
and set the color for white,
I believe it is.
That's black.
This way, Sal.
That's only on my computer.
It's not on yours.
This will actually work on your computer.
Save it.
Close it.
And now launch it.
So that's a multi-step process.
Thank you.
It's a multi-stage process involving
a lot of work that's now automated
down to just a single drag and drop.
And now we've added in some playback
properties to make it even cooler.
And that's, again,
part of this whole collection
of applets and droplets that are
available for you from the website.
There's other ones such
as set controller type,
set window position, save as uneditable,
save in various formats like copy,
make a copy as hinted,
export it to a DV stream if you want to.
So all the export kind of ideas
are available to you as well.
I'll show you one more,
which is the set href property.
And I'm going to set the
preference for the target URL to be
http://www.apple.com/.applescript.
And that's going to be the preference
for this so that when I drag
on any movie onto that script.
And let's do this one.
Yeah, right, I'm going to love expose,
right.
OK,
so it just set the href of this movie.
[Transcript missing]
So that's how you set
the href for a movie,
very easily with AppleScript.
Again, so you can begin to get an idea
about a workflow that would involve
maybe having a folder of some of
your favorite automation scripts
in a location on your computer,
either on the dock or someplace else.
And as you're working with
QuickTime content during the day,
for those small tasks
that you need to do,
I need a copy of this in this format,
I need to set this for our home URL,
I need to set the
annotations on this one.
It's just a matter of you
dragging to these little tools.
It's like those neat
little kitchen tool things.
Okay, let's take a look at some of
the scripts that are part of the
QuickTime scripts collection.
I'm going to open up my Momoko again.
And I'm going to add
chapters into this movie.
Now, how do you do chapters?
How do you add chapters into a movie?
You shoot yourself?
Okay.
It's an interesting way
to go about doing it.
Probably a more pacifist way
would be to use AppleScript,
and we're going to try it that way.
Thank you for being patient.
So the QuickTime player,
I'll choose chapters,
and the first thing I'll
do is create chapter track.
And what that script will do is says,
which track do you want
to tie the chapters to?
The audio or the video track,
and I'll choose the video track.
So it goes through the process of
creating a chapter track and inserting
a chapter at the very beginning.
Start.
Now I'd like to add some, let's see,
full screen.
So go back right to there.
Okay.
So it's just about to, right there.
So she's standing up.
Okay.
Now at that point,
I'm going to go back to
the QuickTime player,
and I'm going to choose chapters,
add chapter at the current time,
and I'm going to give
it a name of full shot.
Right there.
Click okay.
And you can see that it
added a chapter there,
and it has still wanted
to start like that.
And then I'm going to
continue down over here to.
Where it brings in the logo, logo.
So I'll go back and choose chapters,
add a chapter at the current time.
I'll say logo.
Logo.
Choose OK.
So now I have chapters
inserted for a full shot.
Start.
Logo.
And of course,
they change as the movie's playing.
This one doesn't want to
scroll very well today.
If I want to delete one of
those or rename a chapter,
I can go back and do that.
I'll choose chapter,
and I could say delete
chapter or rename a chapter.
So instead of full shot,
I'll call that halfway.
And you can see from
our chapter list here,
our chapter pop-up, it's halfway, start,
and logo.
Easy.
Chapters are a piece of cake now.
And what can you do with chapters?
You can add chapters into
your QuickTime content,
and then when you put
that into the new iDVD,
it will automatically sense
that and break those out into
separate DVD portions for you.
So you don't necessarily have to be
in iMovie in order to add chapter
tracks into your movie content.
It's really easy to do
right from AppleScript.
Now,
all of this has been happening because
of the power of AppleScript working.
Behind the scenes talking
to the QuickTime player.
All of these scripts have involved the
use of the QuickTime player application.
It's actually the pro version.
I got the pro version.
I actually bought the pro version myself,
I must say.
I want to support my company.
I bought the pro version myself.
And then I took five keys off the
server and used them for other things.
But basically, I did pay more.
And all of this has been happening
with the QuickTime player application,
and it involves the
process of writing scripts.
When you write scripts
and use AppleScript,
as you guys well know,
use the script editor.
This is the first version of
the new script editor beta 2.
The second version has a lot
nicer icons and a little bit
different interface here,
but it's basically the idea that
this is the area right here in
which you write your scripts.
Now I'm going to open up the
dictionary or the internal
commands available to us from
AppleScript for the QuickTime player.
And to do that,
I went to the file menu and
I chose open dictionary.
I get this wonderful dialogue that shows
me every scriptable app on my computer.
Hopefully your computer does
not look anything like mine.
And here is the dictionary
for the QuickTime player.
Now,
since a lot of you have scripted before,
you're not afraid of seeing
this kind of a thing.
This makes a lot of sense to you.
There are the standard suite of events.
These are commands that are common
to most scriptable applications.
They're usually a set of verbs
or commands that indicate
standard actions such as close,
count, delete, does something exist,
make, make a new movie, open, print,
quit.
So these are the commands,
the verbs that you use.
And this section of the dictionary
is the QuickTime player suite.
And this contains commands and
objects that are particular to
the QuickTime player application.
Under the category of classes,
you see this collapsible
thing right here.
Those are the objects
that can be scripted.
There's commands or verbs
that are the action,
and then there's the nouns,
which are the objects
that can be scripted.
And then there's the action,
and then there's the action,
and then there's the action.
There's annotations,
and an annotation has
some properties about it.
It has a property called full text,
it has an ID, it has a name.
The application,
which is the QuickTime player
application itself,
actually has a very interesting
set of properties here.
And it also shows you that
the QuickTime player has these
elements that belong to it.
It has a display, which is your monitor,
a favorite, a movie, a recent item,
and a window are all things that
the QuickTime player application
deals with on a scriptable basis.
And these are some of the properties
of just the application itself.
And some of these are pretty interesting,
like open movie and new player.
So you can remotely have
AppleScript control the way that
the movie player on the customer's
machine is going to respond before
you even play the first movie.
So you can set this property,
you can get this property,
and change it as you need to.
You can find out what is your
current QuickTime connection speed.
You can find out what QuickTime language
is QuickTime Pro installed.
What is the version of QuickTime?
Do you want to show the equalizer?
Do you want to show the favorites window?
Do you want to show the
movie window window?
welcome movie automatically?
And what version of the
QuickTime player are you dealing with?
There are then the scriptable
objects themselves that make
up the QuickTime player.
And one of the first ones we're
going to go to at a higher
level is the movie object.
Because we all deal
with this pretty much.
And a movie is composed of annotations,
it has chapters, it has a file,
or an internet location.
An internet location for a stream, right?
A file for a movie that
you're running on a CD.
It has tracks.
It might have video tracks, audio tracks,
graphic tracks.
Any kind of QuickTime track
would show up here.
And it has a window that
the movie executes in.
And these are the properties of a movie.
And you can see that Gary's done
an incredible job of supplying
the kind of things that we need.
It's really, really amazing.
There's your auto quit when done.
And it says it's a Boolean value,
which is true or false.
So I could say,
set auto quit when done of
the front movie is false.
And it will not quit when done.
If I say, set auto quit when done of
the front movie to true,
then it will quit the
QuickTime player when it's done.
The same applies for close when done.
You can set the controller type to
a specific kind of controller type.
To none, or to VR player,
or whatever you need.
You can get the current
time of the movie.
You can get the dimensions.
You can get the duration, fast start.
You can get the href.
So this is what those droplets
use to go in and set the movie.
And you can see that they're
quite extensive in their variety.
Now, a movie is composed of tracks.
Well, tracks also have a collection of
properties involved with them.
From whether it's an audio sample rate,
or whether it's a language,
or what kind is it.
Is it a video grayscale?
What are the natural
dimensions of that track?
[Transcript missing]
is showing an example of three
of the new features that are
part of the QuickTime dictionary.
So let me go back here for a second
and pull that dictionary back up again.
What's the recent items?
Okay.
And one of the new events is enter
full screen and exit full screen.
We have the ability to
auto-present a movie.
So you saw previously when I did
click the link in the web page that
the movie went full screen and then
presented itself and then closed off.
But you can actually see
the movie loading in.
You can actually see the
file open up and then play.
For smoother presentation,
what we've implemented in the new
version of QuickTime with these
two commands is the ability to
first set the monitor to a color,
just a plain color that you want,
whether it's white, black, red,
chartreuse, teal, whatever you like.
And then we load the movie in behind
it and then present the movie.
When the movie's done,
we close the movie,
bring up the next one, play that,
then close that one,
then bring the screen back to normal.
So this enter full screen command
can... comes in very useful when you
need to present to somebody who's
got a wallet that has money in it.
See, I always think about how
AppleScript's used in money,
you know?
In terms of money,
because I used to write
scripts for a living.
And all of this technology
has now been built,
that command's been built into the new
version of the present movies script.
So some of the new
abilities are presentation.
Do you want it full screen?
Do you want it double normal?
Do you want a continuation dialogue?
Do you want it to loop?
Do you want to set the volume?
And what kind of background
color do you want to apply to it?
So I'll set some of these preferences.
I'll let it go full screen.
I'll leave the default volume.
Should it play?
No continuation dialogue, no looping,
and I want to set this
background of it to white.
So you can see that that's been
applied and saved into the script.
Now, when I drag...
Since we're programmers here,
I'm going to drag these
two onto the script.
You see it go full white first?
You didn't see the movie load?
It happens very fast and very smooth.
I had everything set up on Windows.
I had my whole life on that machine.
You know, my illustrations, my writing,
my banking.
You know,
it's like being stuck in a relationship.
My fiancé knows him.
It works on some level.
So now you know somebody that
knows somebody that knows him.
Okay, well let's watch when this closes.
Closes, screen, new movie, comes in,
smooth.
We decided to try to upgrade.
We were lured by the iMac.
Then we looked at the
operating system and said,
wow, this is possibly the best
operating system I've ever seen.
So I was expecting to see
3,000 guys looking at him here.
Imagine my surprise.
It's not just for artists.
It's not just for pointy-headed
intellectuals from California.
Yes!
It's for us.
It's for developers.
This thing is an all-around computer.
I can use this for everything.
Now watch it close.
I'm a programmer.
If I try it.
Then back to normal.
Nice.
Let's thank the QuickTime team
for putting that in there for us.
Another new feature that they
inserted into the new version
of QuickTime that's very useful,
especially for those that
actually know what they're doing,
is this thing called a matrix.
Anybody here familiar with matrices?
Grumble, grumble, couple people, yeah,
yeah, cool.
Couple people, algebra, I hated it,
I hated it, I hated it.
It's like where you have three numbers,
and then you have three
numbers underneath that,
and then three numbers underneath that,
and you change these numbers,
and somehow it does something.
They have it in Photoshop,
and I've opened up images and just
typed in numbers and watched them go,
grumble, grumble, grumble,
and then you can't get them back,
and you know, Aunt Louise has a carrot
growing out of her nose,
and it gets weird.
So, they've opened up the ability
for us to set and get the
current matrix for a movie.
So,
what I'm going to do is open up a movie.
And what I'm going to do is go in
here and choose Get Movie Properties,
Video Track, Size, Adjust.
So the first thing I'm going
to do is just grab this here.
You click it once,
and then I'm going to just kind
of skew it a little bit like this.
So I've actually changed the movie.
The movie still plays like this,
but now it's been altered.
And this has been altered to
a mathematical calculation
involving a matrix.
So I'm going to write a script,
tell application QuickTime player.
To get the current matrix,
can you see that?
Of the front movie.
Don't you love this
heavy programming stuff?
And if I run it,
you can see that down here at the bottom,
we have an AppleScript list of three
numbers corresponding to the top numbers,
three numbers corresponding
to the middle numbers,
and three numbers corresponding
to the bottom numbers.
That's the matrix of this movie.
And then if I go into the movie and
I again do some more things to it,
like I'll grab the rotationable,
rotate it like that,
and then run the script again,
You can see that the value here changed.
So you can literally go in and use
AppleScript now to morph your movies
into any kind of way that you want to.
And this is available to you.
I forgot to turn it off, okay.
And there's a script in the
QuickTime player collection
called XMiscellaneous,
set matrix of the front movie,
and we've included a
couple just by default.
Horizontal squeeze, where it slightly
squeezes the front movie.
- Ooh.
Go back to that, miscellaneous,
matrix of the front movie.
Make it back to normal.
Let's see normal.
And don't worry about hurting your movie,
because the movie actually knows
what it originally looked like.
And you can really muck it up
in it and get it back to normal.
You can even make it
look like a flying card,
you know?
It doesn't freeze.
It's Superman.
Everything just works.
It just works.
Unfortunately,
my dad-- So I'm interested to
see what kind of mathematics some
of the guys out there who really
know what they're doing with this
kind of thing can do with movies,
maybe turn them into Krispy Kreme
donuts or something like that with
weird centers and things like that.
But that's another second feature
involved in the new QuickTime player.
The third feature,
the third new feature that
I want to talk about is--
A very important one that's
been a wish list item for
everybody for quite some time.
Now, you'll notice that under export,
we've always wanted to use the incredible
engine that's built into the operating
system of QuickTime to do compression.
You might not know this,
but all the compression tools you
need for really doing good quality
compression are built into the
QuickTime architecture and can be
accessed from the QuickTime player.
And naturally, since they're scriptable,
you can use those to batch process
some export of items yourself.
And until now, until the most recent
version of QuickTime,
you would have to say
using a settings preset,
which was one of these things.
So if I open up Dave again,
and I choose... You had gotten
so disgusted with the machine.
Dave got so disgusted with me,
I had him set to autoplay and present,
didn't I?
So if I chose export... - All right.
These settings here,
I could use default settings,
most recent settings,
or something that was pre-named.
We didn't have the ability in
AppleScript to go into the options
and really get at all the various
settings and get into details.
And we couldn't set those on
the fly like we wanted to,
to be able to do some very
sophisticated batch processing.
So what they've implemented in the
new QuickTime player is the ability
to actually save an export setting.
Now, these settings get saved to a
specific kind of file that only
QuickTime pays attention to.
You can't open it up into
BBEdit and play with it.
But what you can do then is save
off your favorite set of settings
and then use those settings
when you want to batch export.
So you could have 20 different
settings for just audio.
You might have a set that really
worked well for classical stuff.
You might have a set that
really worked great for jazz.
Or you might have a set for video
that you like a certain way.
And now all of those are available
to you using the save export command.
And the way you would do that
is you would say save export
settings for the front movie,
for perhaps MPEG-4, to a file location.
And you always want to do this.
You always want to, first of all,
set up your settings.
So I'm going to go options, MPEG-4.
I want video to be here.
Ding, ding, ding.
I want that like that.
Ooh, this is going to be ugly.
Like that over here and about there,
okay?
And then I go okay, save,
and then start the
export and then stop it.
What that has done is that's
set into the QuickTime player,
those as being your most recent settings.
Now when I use the command in
AppleScript to save export settings,
I'm actually saving those settings.
So yes, it's going to take you maybe
a couple hours to set up all a
batch of your favorite settings.
But once you do,
you can do cool things with it.
And so I'd like to bring up now.
Ryan Lynch from the QuickTime team
is going to demonstrate this tool
that he created himself to use
internally and with some clients.
Thank you, Ryan.
Can we have demo two, please?
Oh, yes, demo two.
So part of my job is dealing with
production of streaming media.
And so it's terribly tedious
and repetitive if you don't have
any tools to take care of it.
So what I've done is use a lot
of the scripts that we have.
Demo two.
Thank you.
Some of the things that Sal came up
with before and tweaked them a lot
and helped to really automate some
of the processes that we have to do.
So taking off on the saving
this export settings,
I have a fun little tool that I wrote
here called QuickTime Compression Helper.
And so, you know,
I've got some nifty AIFF files
and I want to actually do a
batch and code of these things.
So if I were to open it
up in QuickTime Player,
we'll go through this
whole thing and set up the,
I want to export to a
QuickTime movie perhaps with...
AAC is awesome, so we'll do that.
And good enough.
So, okay,
so if we were to export that to desktop,
go.
So now, if I were to run this,
I can just say,
save my QuickTime settings.
Because I just did the QuickTime movie,
so let's save the
QuickTime movie settings.
You can save any of
the settings for 3GPP,
which is new in 6.3 QuickTime,
or even the hinted movie, any of them.
So let's save that.
I'm going to call it--
I like Bob.
So, Bob test.
Now it's saved it off.
And if I were to grab all of these files,
drag them on there.
It gives me a list of all the
settings that I have that I've already
saved off in my settings directory.
So I can say, Bob, test in a 96K.
Go.
And now it's going to go
through and export those two
movies at both those bit rates,
save them back out to disk.
Really cool.
So you can basically set up your
own poor man's version of Cleaner,
and it works very well.
I actually like to think of it as
the smart man's version of Cleaner.
Because the nice thing is this is yours.
You customize it the way that you want.
You're not dealing with
somebody else's interface.
You're not dealing with somebody
else's rules of the game.
This is something that
you do that's yours,
that really works for your needs
and the needs of your client.
And it's a tool that costs.
Rhonda, what does QuickTime Pro sell for?
29.99 and you get access to
this incredible technology
and compression ability.
Can you get it free in a book?
That's another good one.
There's a QuickTime for...
The web.
Web.
I thought I was going to
get somebody to say that.
QuickTime for the web.
It also includes that as well.
OK, so we got one that came out.
I think this is the last one.
Okay.
That's not bad.
What are we doing this on?
What is that?
Oh, it's not a G5.
How come?
I want one.
Okay, that's enough of that anyway,
so we'll stop that.
And let's take a look at what we got.
So we have four new files that's created,
it's exported,
and I've named them with the names
of the settings that I used so that
you know what you've just exported.
So that's kind of nifty
and works pretty well.
Oh, got to tell this to shut up.
And so now I've got these files,
but when you have just movie
file or just audio files,
they don't look very pretty.
So we want to--when we present
these things for the web,
I usually like to add a graphic
onto them and let--so there's
something for the user to actually
see and get more of an experience.
So I've got some--no, not that one,
the other one.
I've got some files here
that are all audio files.
They're not very special.
You know, they've got... They just...
They're all the same, actually.
So we're going to take these guys,
and I'm going to drop them on my
little image and annotation script.
And none of them had annotations,
so I like to do a whole bunch of things
together and just string a whole bunch
of operations into one AppleScript.
Like a workflow.
Yeah, a workflow.
So it works very well.
So we have,
I'm going to set the annotations.
It actually saves,
this version saves the annotations
that I used last time so
that I can use them again,
which is kind of nifty.
It's a wonderful feature, the properties,
you can save everything into them.
And so there we go, that sounds good.
I'm going to choose my graphic file.
Hey, that looks good.
Go for it.
So I'm just copying and
pasting it in there,
and boom.
Done.
So now, if I were to open this up,
it sets auto,
I guess that one sets autoplay too.
So you could actually have a series
of images and have a slideshow
going along as that's playing too,
just with images you get of the group
from the web or whatever as well.
Great use?
Yeah.
Excellent example of a simple workflow
put together with AppleScript and
the tools of the QuickTime player.
Thank you.
My pleasure.
Appreciate it.
So the next thing,
can we go back to laptop one?
Laptop one.
So that's some of what's
in the QuickTime scripts.
If you actually delve through there,
there's a lot more involved and there's a
lot more that you can take advantage of.
Due to time constraints,
we're going to move on to
some heavier hitting things.
This year for Apple and the
last year for Apple has been a
tremendous year of innovation.
And as Steve said a couple years ago,
when he was asked a question
about the economic slump,
he said that Apple plans to
innovate its way out of the slump.
And we've been doing that as witnessed
by some of the materials and things
that you've seen at this show.
So one of the key things that we
were able to do that we introduced
a while ago was AppleScript Studio.
What AppleScript Studio is,
it's a peer development
language to Objective-C,
Java, and C, uses the same tools,
development tools that all
those other languages use.
And now at this series,
at this conference,
we introduce the culmination
of the original work that
we did with Project Builder,
and we introduced Xcode.
And I've just opened up Xcode here.
And AppleScript Studio is
actually a component of Xcode.
It's part of Xcode.
And what it lets you do is it lets
you develop real applications for
Mac OS X written entirely in AppleScript,
partially in AppleScript,
or a combination of AppleScript, Java, C,
Carbon, Cocoa, whatever you want.
You put it together and it's yours
and it looks like a Mac OS X app
because it is a Mac OS X app.
And one of the neat things
about this and one of the really
innovative things about this is the
crosstalk now between languages.
AppleScript can now communicate directly
with any system API or any framework,
including the QuickTime framework.
I'm going to launch this
little app that's on my desktop
here called the Movie Player.
So what this will do is I'll
just do it and you'll watch.
Watch it fade.
Ooh, did you get it?
Wait, it faded in?
I'll run again.
I found a new property.
See the way the movie faded in?
Ooh.
It's going to fade out.
Now, interesting thing about this movie--
I get to fade it in one more time.
I like my toys.
I'm going to stop it.
As this movie player
application has some commands,
I can rewind.
I can play.
I can stop and I can set preferences.
So it has a series of preferences
that I can set for auto-play,
auto-quit when done,
do I want to hide other application
windows when I launch this application,
and do I want to fade
the movie in and out.
And this is a native
Mac OS X application.
I've created my own
movie player application.
And like any other
Mac OS X application that's created,
it has a bundle.
It is actually a package of things.
And if I open up the contents folder,
resources folder,
there's a folder in there called movie.
And I can literally just take this
movie out and drag in another one.
I won't take that one.
I want something more.
Give me Momoko.
Yeah, there we go.
And I'm going to close that
and now run the app again.
[Transcript missing]
Because like the QuickTime guys,
we got our own address.
And click the AppleScript Studio button.
And there's a project down here
that's called Movie Player Project,
and you can download it
and actually use this.
And I'm going to open that
project up right now into Xcode.
And you do that by just
clicking the blue kind of file.
And this is Xcode,
if you've seen it demonstrated
throughout the conference so far.
And we live in this project,
we live in this environment too.
This is our environment just
as much as it is Objective-C,
Cocoa, Carbon, any other language.
This belongs to AppleScript too.
We are peer development
language now on Mac OS X.
And as you can see,
the MoviePlayer project
contains a scripts folder,
which will contain the
scripts for our project.
It contains a resources folder,
that in this particular case contains a
movie folder with my movie in it as well,
icons.
Rhonda Straatton,
Sal Soghoian And you'll notice
that there's a frameworks folder.
And one of the things that
are in the frameworks folder,
let me open this up a little bit here,
is I've loaded in the
QuickTime framework.
Rhonda Straatton,
Sal Soghoian So AppleScript can
tie in to the QuickTime framework.
Rhonda Straatton,
Sal Soghoian And you'll notice
that there's a frameworks folder.
And one of the things that
are in the frameworks folder,
let me open this up a little bit here,
is I've loaded in the
QuickTime framework.
to the QuickTime framework directly,
you can write your own
commands to do this.
So what I'm going to do is, for example,
I'll open up the
AppleScript script itself,
I'll just double-click it.
And this is the AppleScript script
that's in there.
I'm going to set this for
editing out of a single window.
And it has a lot of documentation
built right into the header,
so it tells you how to use this.
And it tells you about some of the
QuickTime calls that are available to
you and documents each one of them.
But I'm going to just jump
to where the script is.
So this is actually the script that
makes up this particular application.
It has some handlers for what
it does when it launches.
It has some properties that it stores
and writes to a preference file
like any other Mac OS X application.
And it has routines
for loading the movie,
what it will do when the
movie is finished launching,
what the application will do
once it's finished launching.
And then it has an idle handler
right here that the application
will watch and determine when
the movie is finished playing.
Well, that's not a command that's
readily available to AppleScript.
There's no "Is movie done?" playing
command built into Xcode at this point.
So how did we accomplish that?
Well, we did that by tying into
one of the QuickTime APIs.
We created a little
routine for ourselves here.
And it ties into the QuickTime API.
This is a little Cocoa thing here.
It's a Boolean value,
meaning true or false.
This is the name of the
routine I've put together,
isMovieFinished.
And here you can see it's actually
calling into the QuickTime API.
An API call that they have
is called isMovieDone.
It returns a value of 0 or 1,
true or false true,
depending upon whether
that movie is done.
And you pass it in the QuickTime movie
that you're going to be examining.
And all of this can be found.
You can go find and...
Is movie done?
It's too fast for me here.
It's in the movies.h file right here.
So this just went into
the QuickTime.h file,
and you can see that here this was
put in in version 10.0 and later,
Carbon 1.0, QuickTime Live 2.5 and 3,
and here's the, oh, it moved it on me.
Natural bounds, wherever it went to.
It slid around.
But you can see it takes you
right into the QuickTime headers,
and you can actually see all
the calls that you can make.
And the way that it's called in
the AppleScript application is this
particular thing called call method.
Then you give it the name of
the method with any parameters
that you're passing through.
So at this point,
AppleScript leaves its world,
calls into the QuickTime frameworks,
has it do something or
return some information,
and then gets that information
back and then proceeds.
So it just leads on with it.
Now, this sample project that's up on
the website contains a library here.
Let's just go right to it.
I'll show it to you.
.h file.
Oh, that's the wrong one.
.am file.
And then switch over to the thing.
Here are some of the calls that
are available in this little sample
that we have in this project.
Getting the time value for a movie,
setting the time value,
getting the duration value for a movie,
getting the time scale,
the bounds of the movie,
the natural bounds of the movie,
rewinding the movie, going to the end,
is the movie done,
what's the bounds of the main screen,
and setting the volume for the movie.
This augments the abilities of
AppleScript Studio as it is right now.
And it's a great example of how to expand
your work beyond the normal scope that
you've been able to do with AppleScript.
Instead of waiting for a scripting
edition to be written by a third
party that you have to make sure
is installed on every machine,
you can now just call the calls directly
yourself through AppleScript Studio and
create a visual interface that
determines what the user sees.
As part of the project, of every project,
this particular
application has a nib file,
an interface builder.
And this is the interface builder.
Let me hide all the other
stuff so you can see.
This is the preferences window.
Here's the application menu.
This is the floating window,
and it has certain properties
involved with it as far as
how it's designed to expand.
And the movie view that's inside of
that window that I have stretched to
fill it is also set to expand so that
when the movie's placed in there,
AppleScript asks for the size of
the movie from QuickTime and then
tells the window to size yourself
automatically to these dimensions,
and naturally the movie
goes to that dimensions,
and then it shows it.
All of that put together
inside of AppleScript Studio.
Brave new world.
You have a lot more abilities
than you ever had before.
And it's all available
to you on Mac OS X,
Jaguar,
and Panther with Xcode moving forward.
So that's just a quick overview of
some of the things that you can do with
AppleScript and AppleScript Studio and
QuickTime and some of the
resources that are available today.
Small things and big things.
So with that, we have a few more minutes.
I'll be glad to take some questions.
Do I have an assistant
on the questions here?
Ah, okay.
Thank you.
Nope.
So I guess I'm the
assistant on the questions.
So quickly,
we'll go through the upcoming roadmap.
And as we're doing that,
please line up at the microphones if
you have any questions for Sal or Ryan,
if you have any.
Here's the roadmap of upcoming things.
There is a QuickTime alternative
programming environment,
which obviously we just
had a big lesson on that.
And if there's any questions
on who to contact regarding
anything to do with QuickTime,
it's Guillermo Ortiz.
He's at QuickTimeMan at Apple.com.
Reference library,
Sal pretty much told you
about all this stuff.
And don't miss, there's a lab downstairs,
open every day,
where you can talk to engineers
about anything you need to do.
And there's also a content creation
lab about creating content.